**Paste a link to your [USERNAME].github.io repository.**

[http://robinsoubry.github.io/](http://robinsoubry.github.io/)

**Explain how to create a repository on GitHub and clone the repository to your local computer to a non-technical person.**

Go to your GitHub profile and click on the plus icon (top right corner, left of your avatar) From the dropdown menu, select “Create Repository”. This will bring you to a wizard screen where you choose a name for your repository and define settings about the license or whether you want to make the repository publicly available or not.

If all parameters are set, click “create repository”, which will generate a repository for you. Now this repository is created on your GitHub profile, but it still needs to be linked with your local machine to allow you to upload any files from your computer to the cloud. To link the repository, open terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to work on the repository. In the command line interface, type **git clone &lt;URL&gt;** and press enter. The &lt;URL&gt; can be retrieved by copying a link on the GitHub page for that repository.

**Describe what open source means.**

As a software user, you mostly experience the output generated by the programmed code, not why or how the machine provides you with a specific outcome. The concept of open source allows anyone to use the software as a user, but it also provides insights about what’s going on under the hood by allowing access to the raw source code.

Most open source software is freely available, but has several restrictions as defined by the licensing agreement.

**What do you think about Open Source? Does it make you nervous or protective? Does it feel like utopia?**

Open Source is one of the greatest ways to stimulate technological or creative advances: By mixing and matching diverse code, programmers across the world can focus on improving and pushing the boundaries or quality of an application instead of having to reinvent the wheel over and over again.

I strongly believe in the reciprocity that is built in many of the licensing agreements. For example if you use some code of a GNU GPL license agreement in your own application, the GPL will also apply to your whole application. So, no Open Source licenses are not necessarily a free lunch in which you can use other people’s work to build a proprietary software.

This licensing concept does not make me protective in any way, but rather nervous in the sense that I would like to obtain a more solid understanding of the rights that I might have (or not) to an application that I would be developing as a programmer or entrepreneur. In the end, the last thing you want to have is someone claiming free use of the software if you sold it to a client as “proprietary”

**Assess the importance of using licenses.**

Licenses are efficient and easy tools to regulate what others can do with your code (or not). Because you will rarely develop a large website or application from scratch (don’t reinvent the wheel), but rather use/borrow code from other developers, it is essential that the rights to those borrowed code blocks are well regulated. Next to that, a good understanding of licenses is essential if you want to public your own works or use third party code in your own applications.

**What concepts were solidified in the challenge? Did you have any "aha" moments? What did you struggle with?**

I let some hours go over the previous challenge (committing and pushing files to GitHub from the local machine), and it seems like I could use some more drills in this process.

**Did you find any resources on your own that helped you better understand a topic? If so, please list it.**

I’m still not an expert in software licenses, and I still would not feel confident to define what code to use or not. But following links helped me to better grasp the matter:

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses)

[https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b2/A_Decision_Tree_for_Choosing_Free-Libre_Licenses_for_Cultural_and_Technological_Work.png](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b2/A_Decision_Tree_for_Choosing_Free-Libre_Licenses_for_Cultural_and_Technological_Work.png)